- [Instructor] Let's begin our conversation
regarding Java Enterprise Edition.
One of the most important concepts to grasp
about Java EE is that it is an umbrella specification
that contains a group of API specifications
for building enterprise systems within Java.
Within sub specifications,
you will find a variety of development concerns addressed
such as web application development,
data persistence, building REST APIs,
dependency injection and security.
The API specifications are governed
by the Java Community Process
which we'll discuss in a little more detail.
The specifications themselves
are just documentation that various groups bring to life
by coding their implementations.
Currently, Java EE is at version eight
and the project has been handed off
by Oracle to the Eclipse Foundation.
Java EE API specifications are created
through the Java Community Process
which basically consists of an approval process
for Java specification requests
and their development and release.
Industry experts, Java user groups
and individual contributors participate
in the process of developing an API specification.
Once a specification is released,
various groups in the Java community build implementations
of the API writing the actual source code behind the API.
These implementations are typically made available
by vendors in their application servers
which can be certified as Java EE compliant.
Currently, there are 20 Java EE 8 compliant implementations.
The JSP establishes the direction of Java EE
through the JSRs they approve.
This helps move the technology forward
in alignment with its goals.
The overarching goal of Java EE
is to help developers quickly build enterprise systems,
providing higher level abstractions
for handling common system concerns.
So imagine if you needed messaging within a system
you are developing.
You could code all of the network connectivity
for the messaging system,
however, with Java EE,
there's an API for that.
Over the past few versions,
Java EE has embraced several high-level goals
that transition the technologies
towards support of modern development techniques
such as suitability for cloud environments
and microservice architectures.
Additionally, Java EE has incorporated support
from developments outside of Java
such as HTML5, and HTTP/2.
Another key theme is simplifying the platform
which has been achieved using annotations,
and dependency injection,
eliminating the need for massive amounts
of XML configuration.
There are roughly 35 APIs included
in Java Enterprise Edition
most of which are depicted here.
For the best use of your time,
we'll be covering 15 of the most relevant
and useful APIs found within Java EE.
Many of the APIs covered in the course
help developers create web applications
such as the servlets, JSP, JSF,
JAX-RS, and web sockets APIs.
Another subset of the APIs we'll cover
addresses cross-cutting concerns used
throughout Java EE technologies
such as CDI, expression language
and bean validation.
CDI is a great example here.
It's the dependency injection technology
at the foundation of Java EE.
Two of the APIs you'll learn, JSONP
and the new JSONB API,
provide tolls for working with JSON in Java.
We'll also explore JPA
which is used for persisting information
to relational databases
and JMS which provides support
for messaging in Java.
You will also get an overview of enterprise Java beans
for building services and the new security API
that standardizes security across Java EE applications.
So that was just a glimpse
of the APIs we'll cover in the course.
We'll dive in deeper with hands-on lessons
for each API that teach you
to create better enterprise applications in Java.